Our principles

We have a pretty simple approach to data protection and privacy, which can be summarized as follows:
You should know exactly what we do with your information

This Privacy Policy is designed to give you full transparency regarding our data protection practices. If there’s anything that’s not clear from this Privacy Policy, please feel free to contact us 



Information we collect about you

We collect information about you from various sources:
Information provided by you

You don’t need to provide us with any personal data in order to visit the Website. However, certain Services do require that you register for a SoundCloud® account and, by doing so, you will provide us with certain information:

    Essential information: When you register any kind of SoundCloud® account, you will need to provide your email address (except when you sign-up with Facebook and don’t give your permission to share it with SoundCloud), your month and year of birth, and choose a password. In addition, if you purchase a Subscription, you will also need to provide your real name, billing address and payment verification information.

    Non-essential information: Your gender if you wish to provide it.

    Profile information: You may choose, at your discretion, to provide additional information for your public profile on SoundCloud® – for example:
        your real name
        a user name (which may be your real name or a pseudonym)
        the city and country in which you live
        a profile picture, profile header image or avatar
        information about how you categorize yourself with respect to your content (for example, whether you are a musician, a label or some other category of creator)
        details of your other websites and social media profiles, including links to those websites and profiles
        
        
        
        How we use your information

We use the information that we collect about you for the following purposes:

Use of and interaction with the Platform:

    To operate and maintain your SoundCloud® account, and to provide you with access to the Website and use of the Apps and any Services that you may request from time to time. Your email address and password are used to identify you when you sign into the Platform. Your device-IDs are used to ensure that you are in control of the devices that have access to your Subscription.

    To identify you as the creator of the sounds that you upload, the comments that you post and/or the other contributions that you make to the Platform.

    To seek your participation in surveys, and to conduct and analyze the results of those surveys if you choose to participate.

    To provide you with technical support.

    To respond to you about any comment or enquiry you have submitted.

    To provide other users with data regarding people's listening behavior of their sounds, i.e. streaming and downloading their sounds or playlists or following their profiles.

    To prevent or take action against activities that are, or may be, in breach of our Terms of Use, Community Guidelines or applicable law.

    We use your month and year of birth to enable age restriction.

    Any additional information that you provide as part of your public profile, such as your real name, and links to your website and other social media profiles (but not your email address), will be published on your profile page. This information will be publicly accessible and may be viewed by anyone accessing the Website, or using our API or other Services. Please bear this in mind when considering whether to provide any additional information about yourself.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    Sharing of your information

We will not share your information with any third party, except as described in this Privacy Policy (including our Cookies Policy). There are circumstances where we may need to share some of the information we collect about you or which you provide to us for the purposes set out above - these circumstances are as follows:

    Other users: Any information in your public profile (other than your email address) will be accessible by other users of the Platform, who may view your profile information, listen to and comment on any of your public sounds, add themselves to your list of followers, and send you messages. If you listen to any sounds uploaded by a pro user, the fact that you have listened to those sounds will be shared with that pro user as well as that you are following that pro user now, so that they can track the popularity of their sounds. Similarly, if you comment on any sounds on the Platform, your comments will be available to all users of the Platform.

    With your consent: We will disclose your information if you have explicitly agreed that we may do so. We will make this clear to you at the point at which we collect your information.

    Service providers: We use certain reputable third parties, some of whom may be located outside of the European Economic Area, to provide us with certain specialized services related to the Platform. These third parties will have access to certain information about you, but only where this is necessary in order for those third parties to provide their services to us. Where we transfer personal data to these third parties, we ask and require these third parties to implement appropriate organizational and technical security measures to protect against unauthorized disclosure of personal data, and only to process personal data in accordance with our instructions and to the extent necessary to provide their services to us.

    Users of our API: SoundCloud has an open API, which enables application developers to integrate elements of the Platform into exciting new apps. Some of these developers may be located outside of the European Economic Area. Any information that you choose to make public on the Platform, including your public profile information and any public sounds, may be accessible to these developers. Please bear this in mind when deciding what information to publish on your profile. For information on how to limit the information that is available over the API, please see the Choice and Control section below
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
